<h1 align="center">
  🔋 Pleo SPA Infra - Lambda@Edge Lambdas
</h1>

[Edge Lambda functions](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/edge/) that support serving of an SPA via
CloudFront using cursor files.

### Setup

The source code of the lambdas lives in the `src` directory. Each edge lambda's `index.js` file
exposes a `handler` method which is the entrypoint used in CF configuration.

#### Test

Tests are collocated with the source files, one test suite per lambda. They are using
[Jest](https://jestjs.io/). Run tests with `make test`.

#### Build

Each lambda is built using [Vercel's `ncc`](https://github.com/vercel/ncc) which takes care of
bundling and compiling. Run build of all lambdas with `make build`

### Config

Since Lambda@Edge functions
[can't use environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/edge-functions-restrictions.html#lambda-at-edge-function-restrictions),
we use JSON config files (`config.json`) uploaded next to the lambda `index.js` file to store
configuration. The config files can be e.g. generated by Terraform as part of the Lambdas deployment
process. Allowed configuration options:

| Name                     | Description                                                                                                                       | Type                 | Default  | Required |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | -------- | :------: |
| environment              | AWS environment. Feature branch previews are only enabled on staging. We also add `X-Robots-Tag` which blocks indexing in staging | `production,staging` | n/a      |   yes    |
| originBucketName         | Name of the S3 bucket which stores the cursor files                                                                               | `string`             | n/a      |   yes    |
| originBucketRegion       | AWS region where the above bucket lives (e.g. `eu-west-1`) at                                                                     | `string`             | n/a      |   yes    |
| previewDeploymentPostfix | The base part of the app url, e.g. `app.staging.pleo.io`. Only applicable in staging.                                             | `string`             | n/a      |   yes    |
| defaultBranchName        | The name of the default branch of the repo that deploys the app                                                                   | `string`             | `master` |    no    |
| blockIframes             | Should the `X-Frame-Options` custom header be added to block rendering of the app in iframes?                                     | `bool`               | `false`  |    no    |
| isLocalised              | Should fetch translation hash and add cookie & preload header for translation files?                                              | `bool`               | `false`  |    no    |

### Details

> [Lambda@Edge lambdas](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/edge/) are used when serving assets from
> [Cloudfront](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/) (CDN) distributions. They are triggered in the
> request/response cycle of a CDN-backed asset at one of the four stages (viewer request, origin
> request, origin response and origin request). They are invoked with either
> `CloudFrontRequestEvent` or `CloudFrontResponseEvent` event depending on the stage the are
> associated with.

In this setup the app uses edge lambdas triggered on viewer request and viewer response events. This
means that those lambdas will run on every request that is handled by the default distribution
behavior which they are associated with.

-   Viewer Request - triggered before the request is sent to the origin (in our case S3 bucket).
    This lambda can modify which asset is requested from the origin. In our case:

    1. Inspect the Host header of the request and determine which version of the code the user wants
       to see.

        For example, a request to `app.staging.example.com` is for the main branch of the app, while
        a request to `my-branch.app.staging.example.com` is a request for a feature branch
        (`my-branch`) version of the app, and a request to
        `preview-{version}.app.staging.example.com` is a request for a specific version.

    2. Based on the above, fetch the cursor file (containing the current active app version) from
       the S3 origin bucket to figure out which HTML file to request from CDN. The cursor file is
       updated as part of the [CD pipeline](../reusable-workflows).

        For example, for the main branch requested we would fetch `deploys/main` file from S3, and
        for a feature branch `deploys/my-branch`. Then we read its contents, which would be some SHA
        hash (like e.g. `ce4a66492551f1cd2fad5296ee94b8ea2667eac3`).

        > Note that this is a call to an external data source, and although who chose to store this
        > file in the same bucket as the files served by this CDN distribution, in principle it
        > could be any other data source (API, DynamoDB, etc.). To mitigate the potential
        > performance penalty from making that request (since it's a non-cacheable, blocking request
        > to a resource in a non-edge location) we use a long lived HTTP connection and cache it in
        > global lambda scope which makes it available for consecutive invocations. For the whole
        > discussion of this topic please see
        > [AWS's guide to using external data in Edge Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/networking-and-content-delivery/leveraging-external-data-in-lambdaedge).

    3. Once the app version is established, the request object is modified to fetch the right
       version of the file from the origin bucket.

        For example, we might modify the request to fetch
        `/html/ce4a66492551f1cd2fad5296ee94b8ea2667eac3/index.html` following the example above.

        > Note that this request is now for an asset with a unique name, that can be fully cached on
        > the CDN level. We upload the file to S3 with `max-age=31536000,immutable` cache control
        > settings, and in the viewer response lambda we adjust the cache headers when sending the
        > response to the browser to `max-age=0,no-cache,no-store,must-revalidate` so that the
        > browser doesn't cache the non-unique url locally. This mitigates the latency added by the
        > cursor file request further.

-   Viewer Response - triggered just before the response is returned to the user's browser.
    Currently we use it set a few headers on the response:
    -   security-related headers like `X-XSS-Protection`.
    -   `X-Robots-Tag` - replaces the `robots.txt` file - we only apply this in staging to avoid the
        preview deployments and main staging deployment from being indexed.
    -   `Cache-Control` - we need to modify this header to make sure HTML files are not cached by
        user's browser

#### `.well-known` files

Well known files under [`/.well-known`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Well-known_URI) URI are
exposing some information under a consistent URL across all websites (e.g.
`.well-known/apple-app-site-association`). These are handled in a special way by this module, and
should work as expected if placed in the `.well-known` directory (and not in `/static`) when
uploaded to S3.

#### Translations

Support for separately served translations can be achieved using the `isLocalised` config option.
When enabled, the viewer request lambda will fetch the latest version of the translations from S3
(from a cursor file assumed present at `translation-deploy/latest` key in the origin bucket), and
pass it to the viewer response lambda which exposes it via a cookie on the response. For more
details see the `addons/translations.ts` file.

### Usage

These lambdas as used internally by the [Terraform module](../terraform-module) in this repo. Refer
to documentation of the module for more information.
